455. [Assign Cookies](https://leetcode.com/problems/assign-cookies/)

Assume you are an awesome parent and want to give your children some cookies. But, you should give each child at most one cookie. Each child i has a greed factor gi, which is the minimum size of a cookie that the child will be content with; and each cookie j has a size sj. If sj >= gi, we can assign the cookie j to the child i, and the child i will be content. Your goal is to maximize the number of your content children and output the maximum number.

Note:
You may assume the greed factor is always positive. 
You cannot assign more than one cookie to one child.

Example 1:
        
    Input: [1,2,3], [1,1]

    Output: 1
    
    Explanation: You have 3 children and 2 cookies. The greed factors of 3 children are 1, 2, 3. 
    And even though you have 2 cookies, since their size is both 1, you could only make the child whose greed factor is 1 content.
    You need to output 1.

Example 2:

    Input: [1,2], [1,2,3]

    Output: 2
    
    Explanation: You have 2 children and 3 cookies. The greed factors of 2 children are 1, 2. 
    You have 3 cookies and their sizes are big enough to gratify all of the children, 
    You need to output 2.

---
**解题思路：** ➹ [参考](http://bookshadow.com/weblog/2016/11/13/leetcode-assign-cookies/)

**贪心算法（Greedy Algorithm）**
    
    首先对贪婪系数g、饼干尺寸s从小到大排序
    
    令指针i指向g的末尾，指针j指向s的末尾
    
    当g和s均≥0时，执行循环：
    
    若g[i] ≤ s[j] 则令计数器+1，并令j -= 1 （将j号饼干分配给i号孩子，并令j指向下一个更小的饼干）
    
    令i -= 1 （将i指向下一个贪婪系数更小的孩子）

**Solution**：

    /**
     * @param {number[]} g
     * @param {number[]} s
     * @return {number}
     */
    var findContentChildren = function(g, s) {
        var i = g.length - 1,
            j = s.length - 1,
            cnt = 0;
    
        g = mergeSort(g);
        s = mergeSort(s);
    
        while (i >= 0 && j >= 0) {
            if (g[i] <= s[j]) {
                cnt += 1;
                j -= 1;
            }
            i -= 1;
        }
    
        return cnt;
    };
    
    function mergeSort(arr) {
        if (arr <= 1) return arr;
    
        var mid = Math.floor(arr.length / 2),
            pivot = arr.splice(mid, 1)[0],
            left = [],
            right = [];
    
        for (var i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
            if (arr[i] < pivot) {
                left.push(arr[i]);
            } else {
                right.push(arr[i]);
            }
        }
    
        return mergeSort(left).concat([pivot], mergeSort(right));
    }